13-1 
CHAPTER 13 
 
STAMP DUTY COLLECTION 
 
1301. A Participant shall pay to the Exchange in the manner and in accordance with the 
Operation Procedures for Stamp Duty Collection (“Operation Procedures”) as 
prescribed by the Exchange from time to time the stamp dut y chargeable under the 
Stamp Duty Ordinance on each and every contract note issued in respect of all 
transactions recognized by the Exchange under Rule 544, save and except:  
 
(a) Market Maker jobbing transactions  for which any applicable stamp duty shall 
be paid directly to the Collector of Stamp Revenue or in such other way as 
prescribed in the Stamp Duty Ordinance from time to time;  
 
(b) Exchange Traded Fund underlying stock transactions; and 
 
(c) Sale or purchase transactions of a Dual Counter Secu rity in connection with 
market making or liquidity providing activities performed by an Exchange 
Participant in its capacity as a Dual Counter Market Maker, which satisfy such 
conditions and requirements as prescribed by the Exchange from time to time 
to qualify for exemption from stamp duty. 
  
1302. All Exchange Participants which carry on the business of dealing in securities on 
the Exchange and all Special Participants shall at all times maintain a deposit in the 
amount as specified by the Exchange and  notified to the Participants from time to 
time as security for their liabilities for the chargeable recognized transactions. 
Should the deposit at any time fall below the amount specified by the Exchange 
because of deduction under Rule 1303 or for any other reason, the Participant shall 
forthwith deposit sum or sums to make up the shortfall. 
  
1303. Each and every Participant unconditionally and irrevocably authorizes the 
Exchange to deduct from the deposit referred to in Rule 1302 such sum or sums to 
satisfy its outstanding liabilities for stamp duty in the event it fails to pay to the 
Exchange the stamp duty in accordance with the Operation Procedures. All sums 
deducted shall, in the absence of manifest error, be final and binding. 
  
1304. In addition to any penalty imposed under the Stamp Duty Ordinance, the Exchange 
shall have the right to charge a Participant surcharge and penalty at such rate as 
may from time to time be determined by the Exchange for any late payment of 
stamp duty to the Exchange, such payment to be made to the Exchange within 7 
trading days from the date of demand from the Exchange. All amounts computed 
by the Exchange, shall in the absence of manifest error, be final and binding. 
  
1305. (a) Without prejudice to the Operation Pr ocedures, the Exchange may demand 
from an Exchange Participant immediate payment of any stamp duty due from 
it or its clients relating to any transaction concluded by the Exchange 
Participant, whether such stamp duty has been collected by the Exchange 
Participant or not. 
 
13-2 
(b) Without prejudice to the Operation Procedures, the Exchange may demand 
from a Special Participant immediate payment of any stamp duty due from it 
relating to any transaction concluded by the Special Participant, whether such 
stamp duty  has been collected by the Special Participant from the relevant 
China Connect Market Participants or not. 
  
1306. All Participants remain liable to the Collector of Stamp Revenue for the chargeable 
stamp duty on contract notes issued in respect of transactions not recognized by the 
Exchange (if any). 
  
1307. Without prejudice to any other rights the Exchange may have in recovering monies 
due to it from the Participants, all monies owing to the Exchange by them under 
these Rules shall be recoverable by the Exchange as a civil debt. 
  
1308. (a) Where an Exchange Participant suspends or ceases its business of dealing in 
securities, it shall immediately notify the Exchange in writing, and such 
Exchange Participant shall remain liable to the Exchange for t he stamp duty 
chargeable on contract notes issued prior to the suspension or cessation on 
transactions recognized by the Exchange. 
 
(b) When a Special Participant suspends or ceases its order -routing business, it 
shall immediately notify the Exchange in writing, and such Special Participant 
shall remain liable to the Exchange for the stamp duty chargeable on contract 
notes issued prior to the suspension or cessation on transactions recognized by 
the Exchange.   
  
1309. (a) An Exchange Participant shall keep complete and true records of and maintain 
separate accounts for the chargeable stamp duty due and collected from clients 
and paid to the Exchange. An Exchange Participant shall whenever called 
upon by the Board so to do produce its books and records for  inspection by 
any person authorized by the Board. 
 
(b) A Special Participant shall keep complete and true records of the chargeable 
stamp duty paid by it to the Exchange.  A Special Participant shall whenever 
called upon by the Board so to do produce its books and records for inspection 
by any person authorized by the Board.   
  
1310. A Participant shall at the same time as it submits a return to the Collector of Stamp 
Revenue submit a copy of such return to the Exchange, certified by the Participant 
that the copy submitted to the Exchange is a copy of the return submitted to the 
Collector of Stamp Revenue. 
  
1311. The Chief Executive or his delegates shall have power to enforce the Operation 
Procedures. 
 