11-1 
CHAPTER 11 
 
TRANSACTION AND INVESTOR COMPENSATION LEVIES 
 
1101. Transaction Levies shall be payable to the Exchange on every purchase or sale of 
securities admitted to trading, listed, or approved to be listed on the Exchange 
carried out by a Participant whether as principal or agent and whether the 
transaction is arranged or concluded in Hong Kong or elsewhere. For the 
avoidance of doubt, the buyer and the seller shall each pay the Transaction Levies 
in accordance with Rule 1103. 
  
1101A. An Investor Compensation Levy shall be payable to the Exchange on every 
purchase or sale of:-  
 
(a)  securities admitted to trading, listed, or approved to be listed on the Exchange 
carried out by an Exchange Participant; and  
 
(b)  China Connect Securities through the use of the China Connect Service by a 
China Connect Exchange Participant,  
 
in each case, whether as principal or agent and whether the transaction is arranged 
or concluded in Hong Kong or elsewhere. For the avoidance of doubt, the buyer 
and the seller shall each pay the Investor Compensation Levy in accordance with 
Rule 1103. 
  
1102. (a) Every Exchange Participant which operates a business of dealing in securities 
shall collect the Transaction Levies and the Investor Compensation Levy 
payable pursuant to Rules 1101 and 1101A from its clients, or shall be liable 
itself if it deals as principal. In the event that an Exchange Participant fails to 
collect the Transaction Levies and/or the Investor Compensation Levy from its 
clients, that Exchange Participant shall nevertheless be liable to the Exchange 
for payment of the Transaction Levies and/or the Investor Compensation 
Levy. 
 
(b) Every Special Participant shall collect the Transaction Levies payable 
pursuant to Rule 1101 from the relevant China Connect Market Participants.  
In the event that a Special Participant fails to collect the Transaction Levies 
from such China Connect Market Participants, the Special Participant shall 
nevertheless be liable to the Exchange for payment of the Transaction Levies. 
  
1103. The rate of the SFC Transaction Levy shall be at a rate as specified from time to 
time in the Securities and Futures (Levy) Order of the amount of the consideration 
for each purchase or sale of securities (rounded to the nearest cent). The rate of the 
AFRC Transaction Levy shall be at a rate as specified from time to time in the 
Accounting and Financial Reporting Council Ordinance of the amount of the 
consideration for each purchase or sale of securities (rounded to the nearest cent).  
The rate of the Investor Compensation Levy shall be at a rate as specified from 
time to time in the Securities and Futures (Investor Compensation - Levy) Rules of 
the amount of the consideration for each purchase or sale of securities (rounded to 
the nearest cent).  The respective rates of the SFC Transaction Levy, the A FRC 
Transaction Levy and the Investor Compensation Levy and the manner of 
collection (determined by the Board from time to time) will be notified to 
11-2 
Participants by circular. 
  
1103A. No Investor Compensation Levy shall be payable for so long as an exemption 
notice made under section 25 of the Securities and Futures (Investor 
Compensation – Levy) Rules is in force.  Participants will be notified of the 
exemption notice (and its termination) by circular. 
  
1104. (a) An Exchange Participant shall state in every contract note to clients as 
separate items relevant amounts of the Transaction Levies and the Investor 
Compensation Levy payable to the Exchange according to the requirements of 
the Commission. Relevant amounts of the SFC Transaction Levy and the 
AFRC Transaction Levy may be stated either as separate items or as an 
aggregate amount. 
 
(b) A Special Participant shall state in every contract note relevant amounts of the 
Transaction Levies payable to the Exchange according to the requirements of 
the Commission. Relevant amounts of the SFC Transaction Levy and the 
AFRC Transaction Levy may be stated either as separate items or as an 
aggregate amount. 
  
1105. (a) An Exchange Participant shall keep complete and true records of and 
maintain separate accounts for the SFC Transaction Levy, the A FRC 
Transaction Levy and the Investor Compensation Levy actually collected 
from clients and remitted to the Exchange. An Exchange Participant shall 
whenever called upon by the Board so to do produce its books and records for 
inspection by any person authorised by the Board. 
 
(b) A Special Participant shall keep complete and true records of the SFC 
Transaction Levy and the A FRC Transaction Levy actually paid by it to the 
Exchange under Rule 1102(b). A Special Participant shall whenever called 
upon by the Board so to do produce its books and records for inspection by 
any person authorised by the Board. 
  
1106. (a) Within 7 days from the beginning of each month, an Exchange Participant 
shall submit to the Exchange a complete and signed return of the Transaction 
Levies and the Investor Compensation Levy payable pursuant to Rules 1101 
and 1101A in respect of transactions carried out as principal or agent during 
the previous month and shall separately show the amounts it collected from 
clients during that month, in such form as specified by the Board from time to 
time. Without prejudice to the foregoing, the Board shall have the power to 
require an Exchange Participant to make such returns at such other time(s) and 
in respect of such other period(s) as the Board may require. 
 
(b) Within 7 days from the beginning of each month, a Special Participant shall 
submit to the Exchange a complete and signed return of the Transaction 
Levies payable pursuant to Rule 1101 payable in respect of transactions 
carried out by it during the previous month in such form as specified by the 
Board from time to time. Without prejudice to the foregoing, the Board shall 
have the power to require a Special Participant to make such returns at such 
other time(s) and in respect of such other period(s) as the Board may require.   
  
1107. (a) An Exchange Participant shall remit within 15 days from the beginning of 
11-3 
each month the total Transaction Levies and Investor Compensation Levy as 
stated in its return under Rule 1106(a) to the Exchange in such manner as the 
Board may from time to time specify. Without prejudice to the foregoing, 
upon demand by the Exchange, immediate payment of all Transaction Levies 
and Investor Compensation Levy due from an Exchange Participant or its 
clients referred to in Rule 1102(a), whether collected or not, relating to 
transactions of any period prior to the date of payment, shall be effected. 
 
(b) A Special Participant shall remit within 15 days from the beginning of each 
month the total Transaction Levies as stated in its return under Rule 1106(b) 
to the Exchange in such manner as the Board may from time to time specify. 
Without prejudice to the foregoing, upon demand by the Exchange, immediate 
payment of all Transaction Levies due from a Special Participant referred to in 
Rule 1102(b), whether collected from the relevant China Connect Market 
Participants or not, relating to transactions of any period prior to the date of 
payment, shall be effected. 
  
1108. If any Participant fails to remit any SFC Transaction Levy, AFRC Transaction Levy 
and/or Investor Compensation Levy to the Exchange within the period specified in 
Rule 1107, a surcharge at the same rate as the rate of the late remittance charge, if 
any, specified in the Securities and Futures (Levy) Rules, the Accounting and 
Financial Reporting Council Ordinance or the Securities and Futures (Investor 
Compensation-Levy) Rules (as the case may be) on the outstanding SFC 
Transaction Levy, AFRC Transaction Levy and/or Investor Compensation Levy 
payable shall be imposed. If any SFC Transaction Levy, AFRC Transaction Levy, 
Investor Compensation Levy and the surcharges remain unpaid at the end of the 
month in which the SFC Transaction Levy, the A FRC Transaction Levy and/or the 
Investor Compensation Levy is/are due, the Participant shall be liable to be 
suspended from trading and may be subject to any other disciplinary action as the 
Board may think fit. Notwithstanding any such action which the Board may take 
against the Participant in default, the Board may also take legal action to recover the 
outstanding amount of Transaction and Investor Compensation Levies and 
surcharges, and all expenses incurred or to be incurred by the Board for taking 
recovery action against the Participant shall be borne by such Participant. 
  
1109. Where the total amount of the SFC Transaction Levy, the AFRC Transaction Levy 
or the Investor Compensation Levy in a return of a Participant under Rule 1106 is 
different from the sum computed by the Exchange on the basis of transactions as 
recorded by the Exchange, such Participant shall take immediate actions to verify 
the records to ascertain the correct amount that should be payable. It shall however 
remit the lesser of the two sums to the Exchange under Rules 1107 and 1108. 
Upon the correct amount being ascertained, the amount owing, if any, shall be paid 
to the Exchange immediately. In case of dispute, the amounts computed by the 
Exchange as aforesaid shall, in the absence of manifest error, be final and binding. 
  
1110. (a) When an Exchange Participant suspends or ceases its business of dealing in 
securities, it shall immediately notify the Exchange in writing, and such 
Exchange Participant shall submit a return up to and including the date of 
suspension or cessation within 7 days after such date and shall effect payment 
within 15 days after such date and Rules 1106 to 1109 (where they apply to 
an Exchange Participant) shall apply accordingly. 
 
11-4 
(b) When a Special Participant suspends or ceases its order -routing business, it 
shall immediately notify the Exchange in writing, and such Special Participant 
shall submit a return up to and including the date of suspension or cessation 
within 7 days after such date and shall effect payment within 15 days after 
such date and Rules 1106 to 1109 (where they apply to a Special Participant) 
shall apply accordingly. 
  
1111. [Repealed] 
  
1112. Without prejudice to Rule 1103, the SFC Transaction Levy payable for a sale and 
purchase of Exchange Traded Options is payable by the seller and the buyer, and is 
0% of the consideration for each sale or purchase in accordance with the Securities 
and Futures (Levy) Order and no A FRC Transaction Levy and Investor 
Compensation Levy are payable in accordance with the Accounting and Financial 
Reporting Council Ordinance  and the Securities and Futures (Investor 
Compensation – Levy) Rules respectively. 
  
1113. Without prejudice to 1103, the SFC Transaction Levy payable for a sale or 
purchase of securities by an Exchange Participant acting in the capacity as a 
Securities Market Maker for a Market Making Security is nil in accordance with 
the Securities and Futures (Levy) Order and no A FRC Transaction Levy and 
Investor Compensation Levy are payable in accordance with the Accounting and  
Financial Reporting Council Ordinance  and the Securities and Futures (Investor 
Compensation – Levy) Rules respectively. 
  
1113A. [Repealed] 
  
1114. The SFC Transaction Levy so collected by the Exchange under these Rules shall 
be paid to the Commission in accordance with the Securities and Futures (Levy) 
Rules and these Rules. 
  
1114A. The Investor Compensation Levy so collected by the Exchange under these Rules 
shall be paid to the Commission in accordance with the Securities and Futures 
(Investor Compensation – Levy) Rules and these Rules. 
 
1114B. The AFRC Transaction Levy so collected by the Exchange under these Rules shall 
be paid to the Accounting and Financial Reporting Council in accordance with the 
Accounting and Financial Reporting Council Ordinance and these Rules. 
 
 